So in regards to meditation on kindness, meta-meditation, you said in the past and I'll just
read it what you said. Meta-meditation is the surmounting of your mind from delighting in all giving into the possibility of acting from
that way, that kindness is experienced correctly, indirectly, not yours. Yeah, what I meant was you don't want to be doing or fabricating kindness artificially.
I mean you can do that as a form of management, as we spoke before, if your mind is gripable but that's not the loving kindness meditation
because if that's done rightly, that's on the level of kindness and it can certainly result in the mind development of the level of becoming another person.
Brahma-viharas, they are done properly. So it's not just your casual, beaming, radiant, happy thoughts and things like that.
It's really seeing the basis of your real will, experiencing complete equanimity towards the basis of your will.
When I say basis, I mean that that ill will is bound with, it's inseparable from it's determined by.
If you're indifferent towards the determination of the ill will, you cannot possibly be experiencing that ill will.
And then you have no choice but to be free from ill will towards people. And the basis of ill will, it's others.
Not just, again, you might have ill will but the time ill will manifest, it's usually aimed at somebody.
But the basis of it is just the factor of presence of others in their general sense. Others different than me, different than this point of view.
So if you start experiencing equanimity on that level and there is no ill will that can develop further down the line.
So in practical terms, you just have to see that no matter how justified your real will might be towards somebody, a person,
that ill will and that notion of personality is inseparable from the physical aspect of their body, of their body, of my body, of our bodies.
And that physical aspect is subject to basically to sickness, aging, death, it's truly not in your control.
So then you realize that even any ill will that has intentionally been inflicted upon you from others,
it was done circumstantially so because they themselves are not fundamentally the owners of their body.
And they do own it as a mistake, as a putty general, sort of appropriates things around it.
But once you realize that you can't own nobody can own their bodies. Everybody is subject to the same universe of principles, of a Nietzsche and things not being in their control.
So then things that you do experience from the account of intentions of others, you can't take in that ultimate sense they will then produce your real will in return.
And you would see it basically as circumstantial, like being exacting out of ignorance.
And I don't mean that in a patronizing sense, like forgive them, they are ignorant, just factual.
Like you know that when there is ill will and you, it's because you've taken your body to be permanent, to be to be in control,
and now you're expressing the ill will or lust for that matter.
So when you see it in others, you see the same thing. So by understanding it in yourself, you'll understand it in others.
And then it just, it becomes impossible for your will to arises, for as long as you don't ignore that fact, that they are not in control, their own five aggregates, the way they present themselves.
Because if they were, they would be, like truly, mass, there wouldn't be subject turning permanence, any sickness, any death, nothing like that.
But they are. So they're not. So when they act like they're going to last forever, you just see clearly, that's out of the same delusion that you would be acting out, if you're making the same.
Same mistake. So that's why if you were to understand that, you basically understand the whole nature of a Nietzsche.
If you were to genuinely practice methameditation, like impossibility of ill will.
And then yeah, you want automatically what you're going to feel towards them is compassion.
Not a sort of smami, tree hugging, sort of type of compassion, just to all of the radiant beings, just indulging, basically self-indulging.
But more of a genuine compassion of, oh yeah, there's a genuine ignorance there.
And if they would only know better, they wouldn't have not done that.
And you know that for a fact, because nobody actually wants to be acting out of ignorance, unless they're already ignorant.
What about you just have ill will?
Well, if the ill will is present, you just first step is you must not act out of it, by body, by speech.
Then eventually you should stop acting out of like even in your mind, in terms of having the unwholesome thoughts.
That's just something that's a new, like arising of those things, possibility of acting by body, possibility of taking by speech, even possibility of acting by mind.
They're not a new, those things present themselves as possibility of the present and the original experience of ill will.
But you are the one intentionally delighting in it, entertaining it, and then proliferating it both.
So that's a new, and that's what you don't want to do.
When you stop doing that, then you'll be perfectly capable of enduring the original world.
So you would know mind affected by ill will, as mind affected by ill will.
But that's all it would be.
So you can already, by seeing it in the manner, you already start recognizing that you can't own it even if you want it.
And when you fully cannot, when you fully sort of discern that, then there won't be any ill will anymore.
Ill will, it's when basically a disagreeable experience in regard to others is appropriated as mind.
It's an automatic ill will.
That's what the Buddha said.
Sometimes he instructs people, details, spends lots of time instructing them, but then they go into the opposite, despite all the efforts that he put into teaching them.
But because of that, his mind, the target, his mind doesn't experience any ill will or unwholesome thought, he experienced a disagreeable feeling.
Then he was like, oh, look at his foolish man, I've been wasting my time.
So he doesn't regard everything as pleasant, but he said that disagreeable feeling cannot persist and overwhelm the mind of the target and basically turn it into ill will aim that that person.
And what about thinking about kind thoughts before any thought?
Well, if you're thinking about kind thoughts, you're most likely going to be thinking on the level of other people as other selves, which means you're just revolving around the problem of taking things as mind.
Which means sooner or later you will replace that kindness. So your fabrication and management, it's only relatively effective in a sense of just kind of pushing it away for a bit longer and so on.
So yes, you need to recognize that you should not be dwelling in a detaining ill will and sort of giving rise to it when you can and certainly acting out of it.
But thinking that you can just replace it with thoughts of kindness, just focus on this experience as opposed to that experience, that's all it does. It replaces one experience with the other experience but doesn't bring the understanding of the nature of experience all in itself.
It cannot bring that because you're just concerned with the content of the experience and just replacing one with the other.
But if you don't know that you're supposed to see beyond the content of the experience into the nature of experience, the universal principles, which is what Dhamma is, then you will never look there because you need to be told and then recognize that and then start making effort of seeing it.
You won't be shown by itself. You can't stumble upon Dhamma accidentally.
So think kind thoughts. It's still better. Thinking kind thoughts is still better than thinking on wholesome thoughts but don't mistake that as a way of art of both wholesome and unwholesome thoughts, which is what you want to achieve.
Because that's what Meta does. Meta is basically absence of your will. It doesn't mean love because that's just completely different experience. It's absence of love as well.
That's why if you do Brahma in Haras correctly, the highest of them is the equanimity, who pays a complete indifference. In Patelua.